= IAM Roles =
Roles allow for automatic provisioning of federated tokens for use by instance-hosted applications.  Using roles for instances, access keys and control the associated permissions (IAM profile).

Things to know about roles and their use from instances:
* AWS access keys are automatically made available to running instances.
* AWS access keys are rotated automatically multiple times a day. Keys are made available at least 5 minutes before the expiration of the previous set.
* You can assign granular service permissions for applications running on an EC2 instance that make requests to other services in AWS.
* Roles can be used with all Windows and Linux AMIs.
* The instance metadata service is used to expose access keys to the instances.
* Precautions to restrict instance metadata service should be taken on role-based instances which run services that might interact with the metadata service (e.g., HTTP proxies).
* 

== Launching an instance with a role ==
# Create roles using the IAM APIs ([[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/CreateRole.html See creating a role]])
# Launch an instance while specifying the role ([[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/launching-an-instance.html See launching an instance with a role]])
# Use the metadata service from the instance to obtain the federated credentials ([[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/UsingIAM.html#UsingTemporarySecurityCredentials_EC2 See using temporary security credentials]])
```bash
$ iam-rolecreate -r s3access -s ec2.amazonaws.com

$ iam-roleaddpolicy -r s3access -e Allow -a s3:\* -c \* -p s3star -o
{"Version":"2008-10-17","Statement":[{"Effect":"Allow","Action":["s3:*"],"Resource":["*"]}]}

$ iam-instanceprofilecreate -s s3access -r s3access arn:aws:iam::111111111111:instance-profile/s3access
```    

= Related Service Interfaces/Operations =
* Impacted services which need to add support are:
** EUARE
*** Role related operations
*** InstanceProfile related operations
** EC2
*** running an instance with a profile
*** using the profile information to populate the instance metadata service credentials periodically
** STS
*** Federated tokens

== '''IAM Operations''' ==
----
* [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_Operations.html API Reference]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_AddRoleToInstanceProfile.html AddRoleToInstanceProfile]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_CreateInstanceProfile.html CreateInstanceProfile]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_CreateRole.html CreateRole]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_DeleteInstanceProfile.html DeleteInstanceProfile]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_DeleteRole.html DeleteRole]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_DeleteRolePolicy.html DeleteRolePolicy]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_GetInstanceProfile.html GetInstanceProfile]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_GetRole.html GetRole]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_GetRolePolicy.html GetRolePolicy]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_ListInstanceProfiles.html ListInstanceProfiles]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_ListInstanceProfilesForRole.html ListInstanceProfilesForRole]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_ListRolePolicies.html ListRolePolicies]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_ListRoles.html ListRoles]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_PutRolePolicy.html PutRolePolicy]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_RemoveRoleFromInstanceProfile.html API_RemoveRoleFromInstanceProfile]]
** [[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_UpdateAssumeRolePolicy.html UpdateAssumeRolePolicy]]

== '''STS Operations''' ==
----

== '''EC2 Changes''' ==
{|
|+ Instance Metadata Items
! iam/info 	|| Returns information about the last time the instance profile was updated, including the instance's LastUpdated date, InstanceProfileArn, and InstanceProfileId.	|| 2012-06-01
! iam/security-credentials/ 	|| Returns the name of the IAM role associated with the instance. || 2012-06-01
! iam/security-credentials/role-name ||	Where role-name is the name of the IAM role associated with the instance. Returns the temporary security credentials (AccessKeyId, SecretAccessKey, SessionToken, and Expiration) associated with the IAM role. ||	2012-06-01
|}