= Fault message template options =
== Formatted strings ==
* One file per language. Language is defined by file name's suffix: EN, RU, FR, etc.
* File's encoding is UTF-8.
* Some C/Java string format specifiers are allowed inside fault template
** %s
** %i  

=== JSON based ===
* File is a JSON object that has version, description url and array of fault messages.
* Each fault message a well formatted  JSON object.
* Each object must have code, problem (message and optional localized message) and resolution (message and optional localized message).
 
Example:
<code>
{
    "version": "1",
    "description": "This file has localized error messages. For more information visit http://eucalyptus.com/blah/foo",
    "common": {
        "user":"пользователь",
        "foo": "что-то"  
    },
    "faults": [
        {
            "id": "1232",
            "problem": {
                "message": "directory %s does not exists",
                "localized": "отсутствует директория %s"
            },
            "resolution": {
                "message": "please create directory %s with 600 permission for user %s",
                "localized": "создайте директорию %s с правами доступа 600 для пользователя %s"
            }
        }
    ]
}
</code>

=== XML based ===
* File is a XML document that has version, description url and list of fault messages.
* Each fault message must have code, problem (message and optional localized message) and resolution (message and optional localized message).

Example:
<code>
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<faults version="1" description="This file has localized error messages. For more information visit http://eucalyptus.com/blah/foo">
<common>
<attr message="user" localized="пользователь"/>
</common>
<fault>
<id>1232</id>
<problem>
<message>directory %s does not exists</message>
<localized>отсутствует директория %s</localized>
</problem>
<resolution>
<message>please create directory %s with 600 permission for user %s</message>
</fault>
</faults>
</code>

=== Properties ===
Example:
<code>
fault.123.problem.message: directory %s does not exists
fault.123.problem.localized: отсутствует директория %s
fault.123.resolution.message: please create directory %s with 600 permission for user %s
fault.123.resolution.localized: создайте директорию %s с правами доступа 600 для пользователя %s
</code>

=== Notes ===
It might be beneficial to have template file validation tool. This tool should check files for consistency and accuracy.

== gettext() ==

* [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gettext| Gettext on Wiki]]
* [[http://code.google.com/p/gettext-commons/| Gettext for Java]]

Code will print error message using 
<code>
log_fault (gettext(ERR234-fault), gettext(ERR234-cause), ...)
</code>
if we don't want to have descriptive messages in the code or
<code>
log_fault (ERR234, gettext("Disk full"), printf(gettext("Please free some space on %s"), "/opt/eucalyptus"), ...)
</code>
if we are ok to have canonical (English) version in the code.

= Fault log options =
* File encoding: UTF-8
* File's headers:
 ** First line: log version with a URL to a web page has log file's description/definition. This page also linked to a page(s) that defines error codes that used later in the fault messages
 ** Second line: indicate when this file was started/rolled up.
 
=== JSON based ===
* Each fault message is a well formatted JOSN object. 
* One message per line with system depended new line separator.

* [[http://splunk-base.splunk.com/answers/7114/can-splunk-interpret-json| Splunk and JSON]]
=== Text bases ===
* Each fault message is clearly separated from each over. 
* Use system depended new line separator.

<code>
       '''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''*
       ERR-3456 YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.MMMZ      fault: ntpd is not running
       ERR-3456 YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.MMMZ  condition: can't find running ntpd process
       ERR-3456 YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.MMMZ      cause: cause unknown
       ERR-3456 YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.MMMZ  initiator: user234245 
       ERR-3456 YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.MMMZ      where: the one you installed
       ERR-3456 YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.MMMZ resolution: 
       ERR-3456 YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.MMMZ
       ERR-3456 YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.MMMZ  1) install NTPD
       ERR-3456 YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.MMMZ  2) run NTPD
       
       ERR-3456 YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.MMMZ ntpd is not running
       ERR-3456 
       ERR-3456   condition: can't find running ntpd process
       ERR-3456       cause: cause unknown
       ERR-3456   initiator: user234245 
       ERR-3456    location: ntpd daemon on localhost
       ERR-3456  resolution: 
       ERR-3456 
       ERR-3456   1) install NTPD
       ERR-3456   2) run NTPD

       ERR-3456 YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.MMMZ ntpd is not running
       |
       |  condition: can't find running ntpd process
       |      cause: cause unknown
       |  initiator: user234245 
       |   location: ntpd daemon on localhost
       | resolution: 
       |
       |  1) install NTPD
       |  2) run NTPD      
       </code>

----
[[tag:rls-3-2]]
