= Overview =
This design covers our implementation of AWS Auto Scaling.

== Tracking ==

{|
! Status || Draft || 
|-
! Updated || 2012/12/19 || Initial document, focus is preparation for Sprint 1
|-
! Updated || 2013/01/28 || Updated for Sprint 2 functionality (which was previously for Sprint 1)
|-
! Updated || 2013/02/01 || Updated with Sprint 2 final details
|-
! Updated || 2013/04/03 || Updated with Sprint 5 final details
|-
! Updated || 2013/04/09 || Added more developer targetted design info
|}

== Out of Scope ==
Implementation of items related to features that we do not support are out of scope. These features are:

* Placement groups
* Spot Instances
* SNS
* VPC

== Feature Dependencies ==
* CW - Listing alarms associated with a scaling policy
* EC2 - Verifying metadata, managing instances, tagging
* ELB - Health checks, register/deregister instances

== Related Features ==
This feature relates to the following features in this release:

* EC2 - Tagging / Filtering
* EC2 - Instance health checking
* EC2 - Idempotent instance launch
* CloudWatch
* ElasticLoadBalancing
* VM Types API

= Analysis =
== Open Issues ==
* Are we supporting "pagination" for describe actions?
* Where are ARNs supported instead of names? (are ARNs supported for the policy name in PutScalingPolicy?)
* What error occurs when setting desired capacity or executing policy is rejected due to cooldown?
* Are only security group names accepted? (or can group identifiers be used as well?)
* Is manual termination of instances permitted when termination is suspended?
* Timing of adding to load balancer (is running "running"?, InService?)

== Resolved Issues ==
* What is the expected behaviour when the desired capacity is set to less than min or more than max? (fail - 400 - ValidationError - New SetDesiredCapacity value 2 is above max value 1 for the AutoScalingGroup.)
* Should resource type/id be included in the tag information when describing groups with tags? (Yes)

= Design =
This section provides design details relevant to developers.

== Implementation Summary ==

{|
|-
| DB || eucalyptus_autoscaling ||
|-
| Source modules || scaling || Contents under '''com.eucalyptus.scaling''' package
|-
| &nbsp; || scaling-common || Contents under '''com.eucalyptus.scaling.common''' package
|-
| Service class || AutoScalingService ||
|-
| Component ID class || AutoScaling ||
|-
| Service type name || autoscaling ||
|-
| Internal URI || /internal/AutoScaling || Internal SOAP
|- 
|}

== Entities ==

The following entities will be added:

* Launch configuration
* Auto scaling group
* Auto scaling instance
* Auto scaling policy
* Scaling activity
* Tag / Auto scaling group tag

== Service Impact ==
New SOAP / Query API user facing services are added.

== Input Validation ==
The majority of input validation for the service occurs prior to routing to the service implementation. The ''AutoScalingMessageValidator'' class processes all messages (as configured in ''autoscaling-model.xml'') prior to service invocation.

''AutoScalingMessage'' exposes a ''validate'' method that returns a list of validation errors. The validation for each field is defined by annotations and validation requiring message context is performed by overriding the ''validate'' method. The annotations used are:

* FieldRegex - A string field must match a provided regular expression
* FieldRange - A numeric value or length of a collection must match the specified range

Annotations are defined in ''AutoScalingMessageValidation'' along with related regular expressions.

Validation requiring (cloud) contextual information is performed in the service implementation.

== Service vs Activities ==
The service implementation is generally disconnected from the back-end scaling activities. The service implementation (''AutoScalingService'') is similar to other services and follows the Gen2ools patterns.

Activities are performed by ''ActivityManager'' which allows a single task to be run for each auto scaling group subject to exponential backoff on failures. Every clock tick (ten seconds by default) work can be performed by the activity manager on the following tasks:

* Timeout - Timeout scaling activities that presumably failed without a state update
* Expiry - Delete records for scaling activities older than the maximum retained age
* ZoneHealth - Update auto scalings record of which Availability Zones are up
* Recovery - Resume activities for instances in unstable states (mid launch, etc)
* Scaling - Perform auto scaling work (launch, terminate)
* InstanceCleanup - Find and terminate unexpected auto scaling instances
* MetricsSubmission - Submit auto scaling metrics to CloudWatch

The '''autoscaling.suspendedtasks''' property can be used to suspend any of the above tasks (e.g. "InstanceCleanup, MetricsSubmission" would suspend two tasks)

In addition to task suspension it is possible to suspend auto scaling processes for all groups using the '''autoscaling.suspendedprocesses''' property.

=== Tasks ===
''ScalingProcessTask'' represents a task to run (which may be subject to backoff), each task is composed of one or more ''ScalingActivityTask''s. A ''ScalingActivityTask'' typically sends a message to another component and does something with the response.

The task framework runs all activities for a task concurrently.

Tasks are executed with an ''ActivityContext'' which provides clients to access other (possibly remote) components.

== HA ==
The following items support operation in a high availability environment where there may be primary/secondary auto scaling components.

* Auto scaling activities are only performed when the AutoScaling component is locally enabled. 
* In memory state is persisted to the database or can be recovered.
* Activities that do not complete are timed out and will be retried.

Failover can degrade auto scaling performance with activities taking longer to complete than would otherwise be the case.

== Testability ==
Auto scaling uses thin abstraction layers to facilitate mocking for test purposes:

* DispatchingClient - Allows simulation of message exchanges
* LaunchConfigurations / PersistenceLaunchConfigurations - Allows simulation of persistence

Unit tests are added for the service implementation and activity manager.

= Function =
This section provides implementation details and descriptions of functionality beyond the core auto scaling features.

== Service Summary ==

{|
|-
| Version || 2011-01-01 || Version of AutoScaling API supported
|-
| Service URI || /services/AutoScaling || SOAP / Query API
|- 
| Eucarc variable name || AWS_AUTO_SCALING_URL || 
|- 
|}

== Supported Actions ==
This sections describes implemented auto scaling service actions. Actions that are not implemented relate to scheduled scaling and notfications.

For more information on administrative support by action, see Administrative Functionality below.

{|
! Action !! Policy Enforced !! Admin Enabled !! Notes 
|-
| CreateAutoScalingGroup || Y ||  || Placement group, VPC Zone Identifier not supported.
|-
| CreateLaunchConfiguration || Y ||  || Spot Price, EBS Optimized not supported.
|-
| CreateOrUpdateTags || Y ||  || 
|-
| DeleteAutoScalingGroup || Y || Y ||
|-
| DeleteLaunchConfiguration || Y || Y ||
|-
| DeletePolicy || Y || Y ||
|-
| DeleteTags || Y ||  ||
|-
| DescribeAdjustmentTypes || Y ||  ||
|-
| DescribeAutoScalingGroups || Y || Y ||
|-
| DescribeAutoScalingInstances || Y || Y ||
|-
| DescribeLaunchConfigurations || Y || Y ||
|-
| DescribeMetricCollectionTypes || Y ||  ||
|-
| DescribePolicies || Y || Y ||
|-
| DescribeScalingActivities || Y || Y ||
|-
| DescribeScalingProcessTypes || Y ||  ||
|-
| DescribeTags || Y ||  ||
|-
| DescribeTerminationPolicyTypes || Y ||  ||
|-
| DisableMetricsCollection || Y || Y ||
|-
| EnableMetricsCollection || Y || Y ||
|-
| ExecutePolicy || Y || Y ||
|-
| PutScalingPolicy || Y ||  ||
|-
| ResumeProcesses || Y || Y ||
|-
| SetDesiredCapacity || Y || Y ||
|-
| SuspendProcesses || Y || Y ||
|-
| TerminateInstanceInAutoScalingGroup || Y || Y ||
|-
| UpdateAutoScalingGroup || Y || Y || Placement group, VPC Zone Identifier not supported.
|}

== IAM Integration ==

{|
! Item !! Value !! Notes 
|-
| Vendor || autoscaling || Prefix for actions, e.g. autoscaling:DescribeLaunchConfigurations
|-
| Resources || autoscalinggroup ||
|-
| &nbsp; || instance ||
|-
| &nbsp; || launchconfiguration ||
|-
| &nbsp; || scalingactivity ||
|-
| &nbsp; || scalingpolicy ||
|-
| &nbsp; || tag ||
|-
| Actions || autoscaling:* || We will permit use in policy of any actions from the supported API version
|-
| Quotas || autoscaling:quota-autoscalinggroupnumber ||
|-
| &nbsp; || autoscaling:quota-launchconfigurationnumber ||
|-
| &nbsp; || autoscaling:quota-scalingpolicynumber ||
|}

The ARN of an Auto Scaling resource has the form:

  arn:aws:autoscaling::<account id>:<resource type>/<resource id>:[<name>/<value>]+

An example policy for service access:

    {
       "Statement":[{
          "Effect":"Allow",
          "Action":"autoscaling:*",
          "Resource":"*"
       }]
    }

== Eucalyptus Extensions ==
=== IAM ===
Support for quotas and resource (see above)

An example policy for limiting auto scaling groups:

    {
      "Statement":[{
        "Effect":"Limit",
        "Action":"autoscaling:createautoscalinggroup",
        "Resource":"*",
        "Condition":{
          "NumericLessThanEquals":{
            "autoscaling:quota-autoscalinggroupnumber":"2",
          }
        }
      }]
    }

=== Administrative Functionality ===
We will extend the standard functionality for administrative purposes.

==== Listing Resources ====
The following actions will support listing of all accounts/users item:

* DescribeAutoScalingGroups
* DescribeAutoScalingInstances
* DescribeLaunchConfigurations
* DescribePolicies
* DescribeScalingActivities

To enable this the parameter '''verbose''' is passed as a ''name'' selector.

==== Deleting Resources ====
The following actions will support administrative deletion of resources:

* DeleteAutoScalingGroup
* DeleteLaunchConfiguration
* DeletePolicy

For administrative deletion the ARN of the resource must be used (not the simple name), e.g.:

  arn:aws:autoscaling::013765657871:launchConfiguration:6789b01a-a9c9-489f-9d24-ed39533fca61:launchConfigurationName/Test

==== Updating Resources ====
The following actions will support administrative update of resources:

* DisableMetricsCollection
* EnableMetricsCollection
* ExecutePolicy
* ResumeProcesses
* SetDesiredCapacity
* SuspendProcesses
* TerminateInstanceInAutoScalingGroup
* UpdateAutoScalingGroup

For administrative modification the ARN of the resource must be used (not the simple name)

==== Administrative Suspension ====
Scaling processes for auto scaling groups are automatically placed under administrative suspension when failing to launch instances (subject to the related configuration properties). Scaling processes can be resumed the owning account or by an administrator.

If an administrator manually suspends scaling processes for an auto scaling group then the group is also shown as being administratively suspended.

= Configuration =
The following properties are added for auto scaling configuration:

{|
! Property !! Default value !! Notes 
|-
| autoscaling.activityexpiry                    || 42d || 6 weeks
|-
| autoscaling.activitytimeout                   || 5m  || 
|-
| autoscaling.maxlaunchincrement                || 20  || 
|-
| autoscaling.maxregistrationretries            || 5   || 
|-
| autoscaling.suspendedprocesses                ||     || 
|-
| autoscaling.suspendedtasks                    ||     || 
|-
| autoscaling.suspensionlaunchattemptsthreshold || 15  || 
|-
| autoscaling.suspensiontimeout                 || 1d  || 
|-
| autoscaling.untrackedinstancetimeout          || 5m  || 
|-
| autoscaling.zonefailurethreshold              || 5m  || 
|}

Interval values have a suffix to denote the units:

* '''ms''' - Milliseconds
* '''s''' - Seconds
* '''m''' - Minutes
* '''h''' - Hours
* '''d''' - Days

= Upgrade =
No upgrade impact noted.

= Packaging =
No specific packaging requirements.

= Documentation =
Administrative functionality should be documented.

= Security =
Use of ARN in place of simple name adds risk of permitting deletion of other accounts resources.

= Testing =
No specific test cases noted.

= References =
* [http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/AutoScaling/latest/DeveloperGuide/IAM.html AutoScaling and IAM (amazonwebservices.com)]

[[tag:rls-3.3]]
