= DNS =
'''NOTE:''' through out this document the following naming assumptions are used:
** '''DNSDOMAIN.COM''' is the public subdomain which is delegated to Eucalyptus
** '''${system.dns.dnsdomain}''' refers to the system property of the same name
** '''${cloud.vmstate.}''' refers to the system property of the same name
** '''INSTANCESUBDOMAIN''' is the subdomain used for instance DNS
** '''10.111.1.2''' is the example Eucalyptus CLC host

== Evaluation ==
=== dig ===
* For evaluation dig is primarily used as it does not have any behaviour -- it only implements the DNS protocol
* The following can be assumed as the '''dig''' command used throughout
** '''10.111.1.2''' is the DNS server, when ommitted dig will resort to resolv.conf and use only the first server
** '''A''' is the query type
** '''DNSDOMAIN.COM''' is our query domain
* The rest of the command cleans output
```bash
function check() {
> dig @10.111.1.2 $1 $2 +retries=0 +timeout=1 | awk '/^$/{getline} $2 == "flags:" {print} /^;[^ ;].*A$/ {print} /^[^;][^ ;]/'
> }
```
* The output includes:
** The flags set on the response
** The question sent
** The answers recieved (all sections; answer, additional, and authority)
```bash
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0
;eucalyptus.DNSDOMAIN.COM.	IN	A
eucalyptus.DNSDOMAIN.COM. 60	IN	A	10.111.1.2
```

=== ping ===
* Ping has behaviours which are important to verify work
** Sends multiple variants of the initial A lookup query (domain searching)
** Sends PTR requests in order to print the pretty header line

=== host ===
* Host best reflects the default behaviour of <code>gethostbyname()</code>

== Setup Steps ==

=== Enable Experimental ===
* Set all the experimental DNS resolvers to be enabled='true'
```bash
 clc 17599 > euca-describe-properties experimental.dns
PROPERTY	experimental.dns.enabled	true
PROPERTY	experimental.dns.instancedata.enabled	true
PROPERTY	experimental.dns.ns.enabled	true
PROPERTY	experimental.dns.recursive.enabled	true
PROPERTY	experimental.dns.services.enabled	true
PROPERTY	experimental.dns.split_horizon.enabled	true
```

=== nameserveraddress ===
* Set the nameserveraddress given out to instances to be the same as the CLC
* '''THIS IS NOT RIGHT!'''  The 'nameserveraddress' needs to be dynamic for HA!
```bash
euca-modify-property -p system.dns.nameserveraddress=10.111.1.2
PROPERTY	system.dns.nameserveraddress	10.111.1.2 was 127.0.0.1
```

=== System and Instance Domains ===
* Set the public facing domain name -- the cloud internal domain is always 'internal'
```bash
 clc 17595 > euca-modify-property -p system.dns.dnsdomain=DNSDOMAIN.COM
PROPERTY	system.dns.dnsdomain	DNSDOMAIN.COM was localhost
```
* Set the sub-domain name used for instances
```bash
 clc 17597 > euca-modify-property -p cloud.vmstate.instance_subdomain=.INSTANCESUBDOMAIN
PROPERTY	cloud.vmstate.instance_subdomain	.INSTANCESUBDOMAIN was .eucalyptus
```

=== Enable DNS ===
```bash
 clc 17610 > euca-modify-property -p bootstrap.webservices.use_dns_delegation=true
PROPERTY	bootstrap.webservices.use_dns_delegation	true was false

 clc 17610 > euca-modify-property -p bootstrap.webservices.use_instance_dns=true
PROPERTY	bootstrap.webservices.use_instance_dns	true was false
```

== DNS Types ==
{|
+ Type || Responds To || Description
|-
! '[[#service-component-resolver|Service/Component Resolver]] 
| <code>${component.name()}.${system.dns.dnsdomain}</code> 
| Resolves the address of the currently ENABLED service indicated by the first label in the request.
|-
! '[[#recursive-resolver|Recursive Resolver]] 
| '''not''' <code>*.${system.dns.dnsdomain}</code>
| Handles resolution of address which are not in domains managed by Eucalyptus.
|-
! '[[#split-horizon-resolver|Split Horizon Resolver]] 
| <code>euca-(.+{3})-(.+{3})-(.+{3})-(.+{3}).${cloud.vmstate.instance_subdomain}.${system.dns.dnsdomain}</code>
| <code>euca-(.+{3})-(.+{3})-(.+{3})-(.+{3}).${cloud.vmstate.instance_subdomain}.internal</code>
| Resolves instance addresses based on the requestor's source address; internal source addresses always get internal ip address responses.
|-
! '[[#instance-data-resolver|instance-data Resolver]] 
| <code>instance-data</code>
<code>instance-data.internal</code>
<code>instance-data.${cloud.vmstate.instance_subdomain}.internal</code>
| hi
|}




== Service/Component Resolver ==
* '''A records''' for components & services
* Components:
** All have a short-name (column 2 of euca-describe-services)
** May have a partition which deteremines their subdomain (column 3 of euca-describe-services)
** May be strictly internal (e.g., reporting) and have no DNS name associated as a result

=== Component Name Resolution ===
* Component name lookups are:
** Global services: <code>${componentId.name()}.DNSDOMAIN.COM</code>
** Partitioned services: <code>${componentId.name()}.${partition}.DNSDOMAIN.COM</code>
* This resolver is authoritative
* Examples of its behaviour can be seen using the following command:
```bash
euca-describe-services --all  |  
awk '$3 == "PARTI00" {print $2"."$3".DNSDOMAIN.COM"} $3 != "PARTI00" {print $2".DNSDOMAIN.COM"}' |
sort | uniq |  
xargs -i dig @10.111.1.2 A {}  +retries=0 +timeout=1 | 
awk '/^$/{getline} $2 == "flags:" {print} /^;[^ ;].*A$/ {print}'
```

===== Regular Single Service A Query =====
```bash
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0
;autoscaling.DNSDOMAIN.COM.	IN	A
autoscaling.DNSDOMAIN.COM. 60	IN	A	10.111.1.2
```
```bash
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0
;walrus.DNSDOMAIN.COM.		IN	A
walrus.DNSDOMAIN.COM.	60	IN	A	10.111.1.2
```

===== Partitioned Single Service A Query =====
```bash
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0
;cluster.PARTI00.DNSDOMAIN.COM.	IN	A
cluster.PARTI00.DNSDOMAIN.COM. 60 IN	A	10.111.1.2
```
```bash
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0
;storage.PARTI00.DNSDOMAIN.COM.	IN	A
storage.PARTI00.DNSDOMAIN.COM. 60 IN	A	10.111.1.2
```

===== Partitioned Multiple Service A Query =====
```bash
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 2, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0
;node.PARTI00.DNSDOMAIN.COM.	IN	A
node.PARTI00.DNSDOMAIN.COM. 60	IN	A	10.111.1.66
node.PARTI00.DNSDOMAIN.COM. 60	IN	A	10.111.1.16
```
===== Failed Service A Query =====
```bash
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 0, AUTHORITY: 1, ADDITIONAL: 0
;reporting.DNSDOMAIN.COM.	IN	A
DNSDOMAIN.COM.		604800	IN	SOA	root.DNSDOMAIN.COM. b-02.qa1.eucalyptus-systems.com.DNSDOMAIN.COM. 1 86400 604800 2419200 600
```


== Recursive Resolver ==
* Resolves names outside of the eucalyptus controlled domain names
** Never resolves names which are in a system controlled subdomain
** Never reverse-resolves addresses which are controlled by the system
* Example of lookups against '''facebook.com'''
=== ANY ===
```bash
root@euca-1-109-165-29:~# dig any facebook.com

; <<>> DiG 9.8.1-P1 <<>> any facebook.com
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 60419
;; flags: qr rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 6, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 2

;; QUESTION SECTION:
;facebook.com.			IN	ANY

;; ANSWER SECTION:
facebook.com.		70109	IN	NS	a.ns.facebook.com.
facebook.com.		70109	IN	NS	b.ns.facebook.com.
facebook.com.		766	IN	AAAA	2a03:2880:2110:df07:face:b00c:0:1
facebook.com.		149	IN	MX	10 msgin.t.facebook.com.
facebook.com.		365	IN	A	173.252.110.27
facebook.com.		86266	IN	TXT	"v=spf1 redirect=_spf.facebook.com"

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
a.ns.facebook.com.	172265	IN	A	69.171.239.12
b.ns.facebook.com.	172265	IN	A	69.171.255.12

;; Query time: 76 msec
;; SERVER: 10.111.1.2#53(10.111.1.2)
;; WHEN: Fri Aug  2 04:59:54 2013
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 211
```
=== Individual Queries: A, AAAA, TXT, MX, NS, SOA, etc. ===
```bash
root@euca-1-109-165-29:~# for f in A AAAA TXT MX NS SOA ; do dig +nocmd $f facebook.com +noall +stats +answer ; done
facebook.com.		473	IN	A	173.252.110.27
;; Query time: 64 msec
;; SERVER: 10.111.1.2#53(10.111.1.2)
;; WHEN: Fri Aug  2 04:58:05 2013
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 113

facebook.com.		874	IN	AAAA	2a03:2880:2110:df07:face:b00c:0:1
;; Query time: 61 msec
;; SERVER: 10.111.1.2#53(10.111.1.2)
;; WHEN: Fri Aug  2 04:58:05 2013
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 125

facebook.com.		86374	IN	TXT	"v=spf1 redirect=_spf.facebook.com"
;; Query time: 52 msec
;; SERVER: 10.111.1.2#53(10.111.1.2)
;; WHEN: Fri Aug  2 04:58:05 2013
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 143

facebook.com.		257	IN	MX	10 msgin.t.facebook.com.
;; Query time: 65 msec
;; SERVER: 10.111.1.2#53(10.111.1.2)
;; WHEN: Fri Aug  2 04:58:05 2013
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 121

facebook.com.		70217	IN	NS	a.ns.facebook.com.
facebook.com.		70217	IN	NS	b.ns.facebook.com.
;; Query time: 47 msec
;; SERVER: 10.111.1.2#53(10.111.1.2)
;; WHEN: Fri Aug  2 04:58:05 2013
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 97

facebook.com.		78	IN	SOA	a.ns.facebook.com. dns.facebook.com. 2013080100 7200 1800 604800 120
;; Query time: 51 msec
;; SERVER: 10.111.1.2#53(10.111.1.2)
;; WHEN: Fri Aug  2 04:58:05 2013
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 137
```

== Split Horizon Resolver ==
== instance-data Resolver ==
* Responds to:  
** A record queries for 'instance-data' and possible subdomain variants, always returning 169.254.169.254
** PTR querires for 169.254.169.254 returning instance-data
```bash
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;instance-data.			IN	A
;; ANSWER SECTION:
instance-data.		60	IN	A	169.254.169.254
```
```bash
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;instance-data.internal.		IN	A
;; ANSWER SECTION:
instance-data.		60	IN	A	169.254.169.254
```
```bash
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;instance-data.eucalyptus.internal. IN	A
;; ANSWER SECTION:
instance-data.		60	IN	A	169.254.169.254
```
=== A ===
```bash
root@euca-1-106-32-141:~# dig A instance-data
169.254.169.254
Using domain server:
Name: 10.111.1.66
Address: 10.111.1.66#53
Aliases: 

instance-data has address 169.254.169.254
```
=== PTR ===
```bash
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;254.169.254.169.in-addr.arpa.	IN	PTR
;; ANSWER SECTION:
254.169.254.169.in-addr.arpa. 60 IN	PTR	instance-data.
```

----
[[tag:rls-3.4]]